gh-122102: Fix/improve docs of descriptor-related tools in `inspect` (#122104)
python/cpython: Doc/library/inspect.rst

.. function:: ismethoddescriptor(object)

   Return ``True`` if the object is a method descriptor, but not if
   :func:`isclass`, :func:`ismethod` or :func:`isfunction` are true.

   This, for example, is true of ``int.__add__``.  An object passing this test
   has a :meth:`~object.__get__` method, but not a :meth:`~object.__set__`
   method or a :meth:`~object.__delete__` method.  Beyond that, the set of
   attributes varies.  A :attr:`~definition.__name__` attribute is usually
   sensible, and :attr:`!__doc__` often is.

   Method descriptors that also pass any of the other tests mentioned above

>    (:func:`isclass`, :func:`ismethod` or :func:`isfunction`) make this function

Reviewer: It's a bit weird to say "mentioned above" and re-mention them. Either you mention them again (which I wouldn't suggest) or you just say "mentioned above".

.. function:: ismethoddescriptor(object)

   Return ``True`` if the object is a method descriptor, but not if
   :func:`isclass`, :func:`ismethod` or :func:`isfunction` are true.

   This, for example, is true of ``int.__add__``.  An object passing this test
   has a :meth:`~object.__get__` method, but not a :meth:`~object.__set__`
   method or a :meth:`~object.__delete__` method.  Beyond that, the set of
   attributes varies.  A :attr:`~definition.__name__` attribute is usually
   sensible, and :attr:`!__doc__` often is.

   Objects implemented as descriptors that also pass one of the other tests
   (:func:`isclass`, :func:`ismethod` or :func:`isfunction`) make this function
   return ``False``, simply because the other tests promise more -- you can,

>    e.g., count on having the :attr:`~method.__func__` attribute (etc.) when an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   e.g., count on having the :attr:`~method.__func__` attribute when an
```

You don't use `e.g.` and `etc` in the same sentence usually.

Author: This particular fragment was a legacy one (I only added `.` after `etc`).

But I agree it will read better without `(etc.)`, so I remove it now. :)

.. function:: isdatadescriptor(object)

   Return ``True`` if the object is a data descriptor, but not if
   :func:`isclass`, :func:`ismethod` or :func:`isfunction` are true.

   Data descriptors always have a :meth:`~object.__set__` method and/or
   a :meth:`~object.__delete__` method.  Optionally, they may also have a
   :meth:`~object.__get__` method.

>    Examples of data descriptors are properties (see: :func:`property`), getset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Examples of data descriptors are :func:`properties <property>`, getset
```

>    descriptors and member descriptors.  Note that for the latter two (which can
>    be defined only at the C level, in extension modules) more specific tests
>    are available: :func:`isgetsetdescriptor` and :func:`ismemberdescriptor`,
>    respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   descriptors and member descriptors.  Note that specific tests robust
   across different Python implementations are available for the latter
   two (defined in C extension modules), namely :func:`isgetsetdescriptor`
   and :func:`ismemberdescriptor` respectively.
```

Author: I find the fragment about those two specific tests being *robust across different Python implementations* quite problematic: in a way, those two tests can be considered *less robust across different Python implementations*. (If I needed a test returning true for, e.g., a frame's `f_locals` regardless of the Python implementation being used, I'd use `isdatadescriptor()` rather than `isgetsetdescriptor()`...).

That's why I propose to remove that fragment.

IMHO, it causes more confusion than good.

Also I believe that the statement that *those two tests are more specific*, together with the docs of those two tests themselves, convey enough information.

>    Typically, data descriptors have also :attr:`~definition.__name__` and
>    :attr:`!__doc__` attributes (properties, getsets and member descriptors have
>    them), but this is not guaranteed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   While data descriptors such as properties, getsets or member descriptors
   have :attr:`~definition.__name__` and :attr:`!__doc__` attributes, this
   is not necessarily the case in general.
```

Author: I believe that the fragment referring to *properties, getsets or member descriptors* should remain in parentheses, as it conveys here only additional (extra) information, not the crucial one (which is that, *in general, the presence of the data descriptors' attributes `__name__` and `__doc__` is likely but optional*).

>    .. versionchanged:: 3.8

Reviewer: Was it really fixed since 3.8?

Author: Yes, with the PR gh-1959.

.. function:: isdatadescriptor(object)

   Return ``True`` if the object is a data descriptor, but not if
   :func:`isclass`, :func:`ismethod` or :func:`isfunction` are true.

   Data descriptors always have a :meth:`~object.__set__` method and/or
   a :meth:`~object.__delete__` method.  Optionally, they may also have a
   :meth:`~object.__get__` method.

   Examples of data descriptors include *properties* (see: :func:`property`),
   *getset descriptors* and *member descriptors* (for the latter two, more
   specific tests are available as well: :func:`isgetsetdescriptor` and

>    :func:`ismemberdescriptor`, respectively).

Reviewer: Keep the mention about being defined in C.

Author: OK, I kept it, though somewhat reworded (I believe now it will be more clear in what sense they are "in C", contrary to e.g. `property`, which itself – technically – is also *implemented* in C).

   Typically, data descriptors have also :attr:`~definition.__name__` and
   :attr:`!__doc__` attributes (*properties*, *getsets*, and *members* have
   both of them), but this is not guaranteed.

   .. versionchanged:: 3.8
      Now this function reports objects with only a :meth:`~object.__set__` method
      as being data descriptors (the presence of :meth:`~object.__get__` is no
      longer required for that).  Moreover, objects with :meth:`~object.__delete__`,
      but not :meth:`~object.__set__`, are now properly recognized as data
      descriptors as well (formerly, they were not).

.. function:: isgetsetdescriptor(object)

   Return ``True`` if the object is a *getset descriptor*.

   .. impl-detail::

      *getsets* are attributes defined in extension modules via
      :c:type:`PyGetSetDef` structures.  For Python implementations without such
      types, this method will always return ``False``.

.. function:: ismemberdescriptor(object)

   Return ``True`` if the object is a *member descriptor*.

   .. impl-detail::

>       *Member descriptors* are attributes defined in extension modules via

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Member descriptors are attributes defined in extension modules via
```

.. function:: ismethoddescriptor(object)

   Return ``True`` if the object is a method descriptor, but not if

>    :func:`isclass`, :func:`ismethod` or :func:`isfunction` are true.

Reviewer: Should we say "X, Y or Z is true" or "X, Y or Z are true"? @python/proofreaders

Reviewer 2: I think it should be `is true`

   This, for example, is true of ``int.__add__``.  An object passing this test
   has a :meth:`~object.__get__` method, but not a :meth:`~object.__set__`
   method or a :meth:`~object.__delete__` method.  Beyond that, the set of
   attributes varies.  A :attr:`~definition.__name__` attribute is usually
   sensible, and :attr:`~definition.__doc__` often is.

   Method descriptors that also pass any of the other tests (:func:`isclass`,
   :func:`ismethod` or :func:`isfunction`) make this function return ``False``,
   simply because those other tests promise more -- you can, e.g., count on

>    having the :attr:`~method.__func__` attribute when an object passes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Method descriptors that also pass any of the other tests (:func:`!isclass`,
   :func:`!ismethod` or :func:`!isfunction`) make this function return ``False``,
   simply because those other tests promise more -- you can, e.g., count on
   having the :attr:`~method.__func__` attribute when an object passes
```

To avoid linking twice in the same paragraph the functions.

.. function:: isdatadescriptor(object)

   Return ``True`` if the object is a data descriptor, but not if
   :func:`isclass`, :func:`ismethod` or :func:`isfunction` are true.

   Data descriptors always have a :meth:`~object.__set__` method and/or
   a :meth:`~object.__delete__` method.  Optionally, they may also have a
   :meth:`~object.__get__` method.

   Examples of data descriptors are :func:`properties <property>`, getsets and
   member descriptors.  Note that for the latter two (defined only in C extension
   modules) more specific tests are available: :func:`isgetsetdescriptor` and
   :func:`ismemberdescriptor`, respectively.

   While data descriptors may have also :attr:`~definition.__name__` and
   :attr:`!__doc__` attributes (as properties, getsets and member descriptors
   do), this is not necessarily the case in general.

   .. versionchanged:: 3.8

>       Now this function reports objects with only a :meth:`~object.__set__` method
>       as being data descriptors (the presence of :meth:`~object.__get__` is no
>       longer required for that).  Moreover, objects with :meth:`~object.__delete__`,
>       but not :meth:`~object.__set__`, are now properly recognized as data
>       descriptors as well (formerly, they were not).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      This function now reports objects with only a :meth:`~object.__set__` method
      as being data descriptors (the presence of :meth:`~object.__get__` is no
      longer required for that).  Moreover, objects with :meth:`~object.__delete__`,
      but not :meth:`~object.__set__`, are now properly recognized as data
      descriptors as well, which was not the case previously.
```

.. function:: isdatadescriptor(object)

   Return ``True`` if the object is a data descriptor, but not if
   :func:`isclass`, :func:`ismethod` or :func:`isfunction` are true.

   Data descriptors always have a :meth:`~object.__set__` method and/or
   a :meth:`~object.__delete__` method.  Optionally, they may also have a
   :meth:`~object.__get__` method.

   Examples of data descriptors are :func:`properties <property>`, getsets and

>    member descriptors.  Note that for the latter two (defined only in C extension
>    modules) more specific tests are available: :func:`isgetsetdescriptor` and
>    :func:`ismemberdescriptor`, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   member descriptors.  Note that for the latter two (defined only in C extension
   modules), more specific tests are available: :func:`isgetsetdescriptor` and
   :func:`ismemberdescriptor`, respectively.
```

   While data descriptors may have also :attr:`~definition.__name__` and
   :attr:`!__doc__` attributes (as properties, getsets and member descriptors

>    do), this is not necessarily the case in general.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   While data descriptors may also have :attr:`~definition.__name__` and
   :attr:`!__doc__` attributes (as properties, getsets and member descriptors
   do), this is not necessarily the case in general.
```
